Add 0.72 blog post (#3725)
facebook/react-native-website: website/blog/2023-05-30-0.72-metro-package-exports-symlinks.md

- [Package renames](/blog/2023/05/30/0.72-metro-package-exports-symlinks#package-renames)

<!--truncate-->

## Highlights

### New Metro Features

#### Symlink support (Beta)

Symlink support continues to be one of the top-requested features in Metro and, in React Native 0.72, we are happy to announce beta support for it.

Symlink support enables React Native to work transparently with monorepo setups and pnpm, removing the need for workarounds. See [Enabling beta features](/blog/2023/05/30/0.72-metro-package-exports-symlinks#enabling-beta-features) to use in your app.

#### Package Exports support (Beta)

[Package Exports](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#exports) is the modern alternative to the package.json "main" field and provides new capabilities for npm packages to define their public API and target React Native.

By enabling Package Exports support in your Metro config, your app will be compatible with the wider JavaScript ecosystem, including via the new "react-native" community condition. See [Enabling beta features](/blog/2023/05/30/0.72-metro-package-exports-symlinks#enabling-beta-features) to use in your app.

<!--TODO update this link-->

> :::tip
> See the [dedicated blog post](https://github.com) to learn more about this feature and our plans for stable rollout.
> :::

Reviewer: @kelset It's ready as https://github.com/facebook/react-native-website/pull/3705 and can land either just before or just after this PR — we can insert the link **now** (speculatively **Monday**), and update the date to match in that PR before merging.

```suggestion
:::tip
See the [dedicated blog post](/blog/2023/06/12/package-exports-support) to learn more about this feature and our plans for stable rollout.
:::
```

> :::

Reviewer 2: the current ETA for 0.72.0 is Wednesday next week.

> :::

Author: @huntie We should probably conform some of the terminology to also use "beta" there. I think experimental still works but maybe we should align on some mentions

#### Enabling Beta Features

To enable these new Metro features in your project, update your app’s `metro.config.js` file and set either the `resolver.unstable_enableSymlinks` or `resolver.unstable_enablePackageExports` options.

```js
const config = {
  // ...
  resolver: {
    unstable_enableSymlinks: true,
    unstable_enablePackageExports: true,
  },
};
```

#### New `metro.config.js` Setup

In React Native 0.72, we’ve changed the config loading setup for Metro in React Native CLI. Please update your project’s `metro.config.js` file to match the [template’s version](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/76a42c292de838a0dd537935db792eaa81410b9b/packages/react-native/template/metro.config.js).

:::info

> Please update your config file to following [format](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/76a42c292de838a0dd537935db792eaa81410b9b/packages/react-native/template/metro.config.js). You can also follow the [upgrade-helper](https://react-native-community.github.io/upgrade-helper/?from=0.71.8&to=0.72.0).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Please update your config file to the following [format](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/76a42c292de838a0dd537935db792eaa81410b9b/packages/react-native/template/metro.config.js). You can also follow the [upgrade-helper](https://react-native-community.github.io/upgrade-helper/?from=0.71.8&to=0.72.0).
```

These format changes to `metro.config.js` will become required in 0.73. For 0.72, we will log a warning if not updated.
:::

This moves control over extending the base React Native Metro config into your project, and we’ve cleaned up the leftover defaults. In addition, this means that standalone Metro CLI commands, such as `metro get-dependencies`, will now work.

### Developer Experience Improvements

#### No more redboxes with invalid style properties

Prior to this release, providing an invalid style property in StyleSheet would result in a redbox. This is a high signal error that disrupts the developer workflow for a relatively low-risk error.

> In 0.72, we’ve relaxed this expectation to fail silently, like providing an invalid CSS property in the browser, and have updated types such that some errors may be caught build-time vs. run-time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In 0.72, we’ve relaxed this expectation to fail silently, like providing an invalid CSS property in the browser, and have updated types such that some errors may be caught in build-time vs. run-time.
```

#### Better error readability for Hermes

> Hermes has added better error message when invoking an undefined callable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Hermes has added a better error message when invoking an undefined callable.
```

```
    var x = undefined; x();
    // Before: undefined is not a function
    // After: x is not a function (it is undefined)
```

In addition, LogBox stack traces now filter out internal Hermes bytecode frames that are not relevant to app users.

#### Improved error output of the React Native CLI

> 0.72 ships with React Native CLI v11 which includes improvements to reduce duplication, clarify wording, reduce verbose stack traces, and add deep links to relevant docs in the following commands `init` , `run-android` and `run-ios`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
0.72 ships with React Native CLI v11 which includes improvements to reduce duplication, clarify wording, reduce verbose stack traces, and add deep links to relevant docs in the following commands `init`, `run-android`, and `run-ios`.
```

You can find other improvements in the [React Native CLI changelogs](https://github.com/react-native-community/cli/releases).

#### Faster Compilation and JSON Parsing in Hermes

Hermes has improved the compilation time of large object literals. For example, in one reported issue, [#852](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/issues/852), a user had an entire dataset written out as a large object literal. By improving the de-duplication algorithm Hermes uses, compilation sped up by 97% ([221c](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/commit/221ce21a209e2e32a3eaaa2d9e28ca81842fad20)). These improvements will benefit build times for apps that bundle many objects.

Multiple optimizations ([de9c](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/commit/de9cff2aa41fc1f297b568848143347823d73659), [6e2d](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/commit/6e2dd652c8d90c5d59737a81f66a259efffdcd00)) to JSON parsing have also landed, benefiting apps using libraries like redux-persist that rely heavily on JSON manipulation.

#### More ECMAScript Support in Hermes

> Support for the following specifications in Hermes have landed in React Native 0.72:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Support for the following specifications in Hermes has landed in React Native 0.72:
```

- Implement [well-formed JSON.stringify](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-well-formed-stringify) ([d41d](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/commit/d41decf244aa814b1e58827a9de982f3b71667de)) to prevent ill-formed Unicode strings
- Implement [AggregateError](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/AggregateError) ([9b25](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/commit/9b25a2530eb515f6c4fbd397ae290b6c97c049b2)) that represents several errors wrapped in a single error. Useful for multiple errors like from [`Promise.any()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/any) when all promises passed to it reject.

For users on JSC, these features are already available.

### Moving New Architecture Updates

At this stage, New Architecture updates are most relevant to early adopters of the New Architecture.

> To keep updates clear and focussed on the target audience, we are moving New Architecture updates in 0.72, and future releases, to the dedicated [working group](https://github.com/reactwg/react-native-new-architecture/discussions). This change will also allow us to share more frequent updates, such as work that ships in our nightlies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To keep updates clear and focused on the target audience, we are moving New Architecture updates in 0.72, and future releases, to the dedicated [working group](https://github.com/reactwg/react-native-new-architecture/discussions). This change will also allow us to share more frequent updates, such as work that ships in our nightlies.
```

<!-- TODO link -->

You can read the [0.72 updates for the New Architecture here](https://github.com).

Subscribe to the working group GitHub Notifications to stay informed on our progress on the New Architecture.

## Breaking Changes

### Deprecated Component Removals

The following packages have been removed from React Native in 0.72. Please migrate to the recommended community package:

- [Slider](/docs/next/slider) is superseded by [@react-native-community/slider](https://github.com/callstack/react-native-slider/tree/main/package)
- [DatePickerIOS](/docs/next/datepickerios) is superseded by [@react-native-community/datetimepicker](https://github.com/react-native-datetimepicker/datetimepicker)
- [ProgressViewIOS](/docs/next/progressviewios) is superseded by [@react-native-community/progress-view](https://github.com/react-native-progress-view/progress-view)

### Package Renames

> All packages published from the repository now live under `react-native/packages`, and are published under the [@react-native npm scope](https://www.npmjs.com/search?q=%40react-native) to ensure clear ownership.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All packages published from the [`react-native`](https://github.com/facebook/react-native) core repository now live under `react-native/packages`, and are published under the [@react-native npm scope](https://www.npmjs.com/search?q=%40react-native) to ensure clear ownership.
```

There are no changes to the [react-native](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-native) package.

Here are all the packages renamed:

- `@react-native-community/eslint-config` to `@react-native/eslint-config`
- `@react-native-community/eslint-plugin` to `@react-native/eslint-plugin`
- `@react-native/polyfills` to `@react-native/js-polyfills`
- `@react-native/normalize-color` to `@react-native/normalize-colors`
- `@react-native/assets` to `@react-native/assets-registry`
- `react-native-codegen` to `@react-native/codegen`

> - `react-native-gradle-plugin` to `@react-native/gradle-plugin`

Reviewer 3: Should we add a Table here instead? Btw, I don't know how tables are formatted on the website...

![Screenshot 2023-05-30 085644](https://github.com/facebook/react-native-website/assets/55224033/1c0ea2c2-dd58-42fa-a3bd-aca9c75ba83e)

Reviewer 3: Will suggest in a bit. Btw you good with column headings/names above?

Author: I've updated! Thanks for the great suggestion!

---

> title: '0.72 - Beta Support for Package Exports and Symlinks'

Reviewer 2: I think we could create a more exciting title. After my comments are addressed, we could try to see if we can get chatGPT to generate some cool titles ahah

Author: I think the highlight features should be package exports and symlinks. What are you thinking?

Reviewer 2: here's 10 variations that chatGPT (3.5) offered me:
1. "Introducing React Native 0.72: Enhanced Metro Features and Developer Experience Improvements"
2. "React Native 0.72 Release: Metro Upgrades, Developer Experience Enhancements, and More"
3. "What's New in React Native 0.72: Improved Metro and Exciting Developer Experience Updates"
4. "Discover the Latest React Native Version 0.72: Enhanced Metro, Developer Experience, and ANR Mitigation"
5. "Breaking News: React Native 0.72 Unveiled with Metro Enhancements and Developer Experience Improvements"
6. "React Native 0.72 Now Available: Unveiling Symlink Support, Package Exports, and More"
7. "Unlocking New Possibilities: React Native 0.72 Release Introduces Metro Enhancements and Developer Improvements"
8. "React Native 0.72: Symlink Support, Package Exports, and Noteworthy Developer Experience Upgrades"
9. "Level Up Your React Native Apps with Version 0.72: Metro Enhancements and Developer Experience Boosts"
10. "What's Inside React Native 0.72: Empowering Developers with Metro Updates and Enhanced Experiences"

> authors: [lunaleaps, cipolleschi]

Reviewer 4: can we add @kelset and whoever from the release crew participated in this (@Titozzz ?)

Reviewer 2: yeah I think we should have the whole crew, so me Luna Riccardo and @fortmarek

tags: [announcement, release]

> date: 2023-05-30

Reviewer 2: nit: very likely this will shift of a week given that we need to do RC4 😅

---

Today we’re releasing 0.72!

This release adds a couple of highly requested features for Metro and developer experience improvements. So much of this work stems from your feedback on the [2022 community survey](https://github.com/react-native-community/discussions-and-proposals/discussions/528) -- thank you to all those that participated!

### Highlights

- [Metro support for Package Exports, symlinks, and config changes](/blog/2023/05/30/0.72-metro-package-exports-symlinks#metro)
- [Developer experience improvements](/blog/2023/05/30/0.72-metro-package-exports-symlinks#developer-experience-improvements)
- [Moving New Architecture updates](/blog/2023/05/30/0.72-metro-package-exports-symlinks#react-native-package-renames)

> - [Mitigation for TextInput ANRs on Android](/blog/2023/05/30/0.72-metro-package-exports-symlinks#react-native-package-renames)

Reviewer 2: the order of these two is swapped in the blogpost

### Breaking Changes

> - [Deprecated Component Removals](/blog/2023/05/30/0.72-metro-package-exports-symlinks#deprecated-component-removals)

Author: This is correct, I copied it from the deployed preview

> - [Package renames](/blog/2023/05/30/0.72-metro-package-exports-symlinks#package-renames)

Reviewer 5: Are we sure that the links are correct? Shouldn't it be:
```suggestion
- [Package renames](/blog/2023/05/30/0.72-breaking-changes#package-renames)
```

> - [Package renames](/blog/2023/05/30/0.72-metro-package-exports-symlinks#package-renames)

Author: I intentionally left it this way, because as a bullet, I'm using this as a description. Titles should be capitalized but I don't feel super strongly

> 

Author: Is this relevant to a user who is not actively using New Architecture?

> 

Reviewer 5: Technically not, but for library maintainers is a problem. I was talking also with @kelset and we think it would be a good thing to call this out in the breaking changes as this is probably the only breaking changes for the New Arch in 0.72 (0.73 will be a completely different story)

<!--truncate-->

## Highlights

> ### Metro

Author: I intentionally left it this way because as a bullet, it makes sense to describe what we're covering in a succinct way (because a reader may not have clicked in) but as a title we have the following sub-titles to clarify --

> ### Metro

Reviewer 2: let's find a title that is a "middle ground" then, so that it can be consistent?

#### Symlink support (Beta)

> Symlink support continues to be one of the top-requested features in Metro and for React Native 0.72, Metro introduces pre-stable support for resolving symlinks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Symlink support continues to be one of the top-requested features in Metro and, in React Native 0.72, we are happy to announce the introduction of pre-stable support for this!
```
nit: wording

Symlink support enables React Native to work transparently with monorepo setups and pnpm, removing the need for workarounds. See [Enabling pre-stable features](/blog/2023/05/30/0.72-metro-package-exports-symlinks#enabling-pre-stable-features) to use in your app.

#### Package Exports support (Beta)

[Package Exports](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#exports) is the modern alternative to the package.json "main" field and provides new capabilities for npm packages to define their public API and target React Native.

By enabling Package Exports support in your Metro config, your app will be compatible with the wider JavaScript ecosystem, including via the new "react-native" community condition. See [Enabling pre-stable features](/blog/2023/05/30/0.72-metro-package-exports-symlinks#enabling-pre-stable-features) to use in your app.

:::tip

> See the newly released [blog post](https://reactnative.dev/blog/2023/05/08/package-exports-support) to learn more about this feature and our plans for stable rollout.

Author: TODO link to Metro blog post

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See the newly released [dedicated blog post](https://reactnative.dev/blog/2023/05/08/package-exports-support) to learn more about this feature and our plans for stable rollout.
```

:::

> #### New Metro config file setup

Reviewer 2: first, the thing that everyone needs to know, then the optional things, then how to enable such optional things

> #### New Metro config file setup

Author: Will re-order

In React Native 0.72, we’ve changed the config loading setup for Metro in React Native CLI. Please update your project’s `metro.config.js` file to match the [template’s version](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/76a42c292de838a0dd537935db792eaa81410b9b/packages/react-native/template/metro.config.js).

:::info

> Please update your config file to following [format](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/76a42c292de838a0dd537935db792eaa81410b9b/packages/react-native/template/metro.config.js). Changes to `metro.config.js` will become required in 0.73. For 0.72, we will log a warning if not updated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please update your config file to following [format](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/76a42c292de838a0dd537935db792eaa81410b9b/packages/react-native/template/metro.config.js). These format changes to `metro.config.js` will become required in 0.73. For 0.72, we will log a warning if not updated. You can also follow the [upgrade-helper](https://react-native-community.github.io/upgrade-helper/?from=0.71.8&to=0.72.0).
```
(headsup, that upgrade-helper url will only work proper once 0.72.0 is out, for now it will redirect to main UH page

:::

This moves control over extending the base React Native Metro config into your project, and we’ve cleaned up the leftover defaults. In addition, this means that standalone Metro CLI commands, such as `metro get-dependencies`, will now work.

#### Enabling pre-stable features

To enable these new Metro features in your project, update your app’s `metro.config.js` file and set either the `resolver.unstable_enableSymlinks` or `resolver.unstable_enablePackageExports` options.

```js
const config = {
  // ...
  resolver: {
    unstable_enableSymlinks: true,
    unstable_enablePackageExports: true,
  },
};
```

> ### Developer Experience Improvements

Reviewer 2: the "Better error readability", "Faster compilation and JSON parsing in Hermes" and "More ECMAScript support in Hermes" sections are all Hermes specific, can we move into their own section?

Author: Hermes is the default engine at this point. I'd want to communicate these changes as general devX improvements.

Reviewer 2: sure - but that could be said for Metro too; why does Metro have its own section and Hermes doesn't?

Author: Hmm, I see your point. I'd say it's because this release is highlighting the features added in Metro and also one that requires manual updates. The changes in Hermes are not stand-out highlights of this release. If the case was reversed, then we'd also create a highlight section about the Hermes features.

Put another way, the Metro section is not really about Metro, it's about call-out features/changes that are added in Metro. 

Thinking about it more, we could move the metro.config changes in the breaking changes section

Author: And maybe rename the title to "New Metro Capabilities" or similar

#### No more redboxes with invalid style properties

Prior to this release, providing in an invalid style property in StyleSheet would result in a redbox. This is a high signal error that disrupts the developer workflow for a relatively low-risk error.

In 0.72, we’ve relaxed this expectation to fail silently, like providing an invalid CSS property in the browser.

> #### Better error readability

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Better error readability for Hermes
```

Hermes has added better error message when invoking an undefined callable.

```
    var x = undefined; x();
    // Before: undefined is not a function
    // After: x is not a function (it is undefined)
```

> As well, LogBox stack traces now filter out internal Hermes bytecode frames that are not relevant to app users. [4c911a2dec](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/commit/4c911a2deceb59fc07735205ae3a4622b4334f88)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to this, LogBox stack traces now filter out internal Hermes bytecode frames that are not relevant to app users.
```

#### Improved error output of the React Native CLI

> 0.72 ships with React Native CLI v11.2.2 which includes improves to reduce duplication, clarify wording, reduce verbose stack traces, and add deep links to relevant docs in the following commands `init` , `run-android` and `run-ios`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
0.72 ships with React Native CLI v11 which includes improves to reduce duplication, clarify wording, reduce verbose stack traces, and add deep links to relevant docs in the following commands `init` , `run-android` and `run-ios`.
```

Reviewer 2: let's keep the reference to CLI v11, we'll be bumping the specific version at least once more before stable.

> You can find other improvements in the [React Native CLI changelogs](https://github.com/react-native-community/cli/releases/tag/v11.2.2).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can find other improvements in the [React Native CLI changelogs](https://github.com/react-native-community/cli/releases).
```

#### Faster compilation and JSON parsing in Hermes

> Hermes has improved the compilation time of large object literals. For example, in one reported issue, [#852](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/issues/852), a user had an entire dataset written out as a large object literal. By improving the de-duplication algorithm Hermes uses, compilation sped up by 97% ([221c](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/commit/221ce21a209e2e32a3eaaa2d9e28ca81842fad20)). These improvements will benefit build times for apps that bundle many objects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hermes has improved the compilation time of large object literals. For example, in one reported issue, [#852](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/issues/852), a user had an entire dataset written out as a large object literal. By improving the de-duplication algorithm Hermes uses, compilation sped up by 97% ([see the commit](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/commit/221ce21a209e2e32a3eaaa2d9e28ca81842fad20)). These improvements will benefit build times for apps that bundle many objects.
```

Author: I'm going to keep it as the hash for now, as we use this format throughout the post

> Optimizations ([de9c](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/commit/de9cff2aa41fc1f297b568848143347823d73659), [6e2d](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/commit/6e2dd652c8d90c5d59737a81f66a259efffdcd00)) to JSON parsing have also landed, benefiting apps using libraries like redux-persist that rely heavily on JSON manipulation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Multiple optimizations ([de9c](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/commit/de9cff2aa41fc1f297b568848143347823d73659), [6e2d](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/commit/6e2dd652c8d90c5d59737a81f66a259efffdcd00)) to JSON parsing have also landed, benefiting apps using libraries like redux-persist that rely heavily on JSON manipulation.
```

#### More ECMAScript support in Hermes

> Support for the following specifications in Hermes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The version of Hermes paired with React Native 0.72 also introduces support for the following ECMA specifications:
```

> - prototype.at support for [Array](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/at), [TypedArray](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray/at) and [String](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/at). See [#823](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/issues/823) ([ebe2](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/commit/ebe2915ac386a6b73dec39c2af4ac7063e68cd99)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `prototype.at` support for [Array](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/at), [TypedArray](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray/at) and [String](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/at). See [#823](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/issues/823) ([ebe2](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/commit/ebe2915ac386a6b73dec39c2af4ac7063e68cd99)).
```

For users on JSC, these features are already available.

### Mitigation for TextInput ANRs on Android

Earlier this year our team was alerted of frequent and persistent ANRs (application not reponsive) around multi-line TextInputs from a high volume of community reports. Investigating, we isolated the issue to devices using the Samsung soft keyboard with Grammarly enabled ([issue/35936](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/issues/35936)).

Our best understanding is a correlation of using and re-formatting a large number of `AbsoluteSizeSpan`s. We were able to reproduce the issue outside of React Native, on a template Android application and found this issue also impacts the larger Android app ecosystem.

We have reached out to Samsung to share our findings and hope it will be addressed by Samsung in a future update.

As a mitigation for the React Native community, we have landed a change to reduce our dependency on `AbsoluteSizeSpans` in cases where they can be omitted. This is not a complete solution but lowers number of cases this ANR may occur.

> This mitigation is in 0.72 and has been back-ported to the following versions:
> 
> - [0.71.7](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/releases/tag/v0.71.7)
> - [0.70.9](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/releases/tag/v0.70.9)
> - [0.69.10](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/releases/tag/v0.69.10)
> - [0.68.7](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/releases/tag/v0.68.7)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This mitigation is in 0.72 and has been back-ported to the following versions:

- [0.71.7](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/releases/tag/v0.71.7)
- [0.70.9](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/releases/tag/v0.70.9)
- [0.69.10](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/releases/tag/v0.69.10)

While we have backported these fixes in all the versions within the [support window policy](https://github.com/reactwg/react-native-releases#releases-support-policy), and even went the extra mile by backporting to [0.68.7](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/releases/tag/v0.68.7), we want to stress how we recommend to every React Native developer to always upgrade to the latest stable available.
```

Author: I'm going to re-word this but the support window bit is a good point to add!

### Moving New Architecture Updates to the Working Group

At this stage, New Architecture updates are most relevant to early adopters of the New Architecture.

> To keep updates clear and focussed on the target audience, we are moving 0.72, and future New Architecture updates to the dedicated working group. This change will also allow us to share more frequent updates, such as work that ships in our nightlies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To keep updates clear and focussed on the target audience, we are moving 0.72's communications and future New Architecture updates to the dedicated working group. This change will also allow us to share more frequent updates, such as work that ships in our nightlies.
```

> <!-- TODO link -->

Reviewer 4: Reminder for self to do this

You can read the [0.72 updates for the New Architecture here](https://github.com).

> Subscribe to the working group notifications to stay informed on our progress on the New Architecture.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Subscribe to the working group GitHub Notifications to stay informed on our progress on the New Architecture.
```

## Breaking Changes

### Deprecated Component Removals

> We’ve removed the following packages from React Native in 0.72 and you can use the recommended community package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We’ve removed the following packages from React Native in 0.72 - please migrate to the recommended community package to keep your apps working:
```

> - [Slider](https://reactnative.dev/docs/next/slider), [@react-native-community/slider](https://github.com/callstack/react-native-slider/tree/main/package)
> - [DatePickerIOS](https://reactnative.dev/docs/next/datepickerios), [@react-native-community/datetimepicker](https://github.com/react-native-datetimepicker/datetimepicker)
> - [ProgressViewIOS](https://reactnative.dev/docs/next/progressviewios), [@react-native-community/progress-view](https://github.com/react-native-progress-view/progress-view)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Slider](https://reactnative.dev/docs/next/slider) is superseded by [@react-native-community/slider](https://github.com/callstack/react-native-slider/tree/main/package)
- [DatePickerIOS](https://reactnative.dev/docs/next/datepickerios) is superseded by [@react-native-community/datetimepicker](https://github.com/react-native-datetimepicker/datetimepicker)
- [ProgressViewIOS](https://reactnative.dev/docs/next/progressviewios) is superseded by [@react-native-community/progress-view](https://github.com/react-native-progress-view/progress-view)
```

### Package Renames

> All packages published from the repository now live under `react-native/packages`, and are published under the [@react-native npm scope](https://www.npmjs.com/search?q=%40react-native) to ensure clear ownership.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As part of our [monorepo refactoring work](https://github.com/react-native-community/discussions-and-proposals/pull/480), all packages published from the repository now live under `react-native/packages`, and are published under the [@react-native npm scope](https://www.npmjs.com/search?q=%40react-native) to ensure clear ownership.
```

Author: I'm re-wording this

There are no changes to the [react-native](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-native) package.

Here are all the packages renamed:

- `@react-native-community/eslint-config` to `@react-native/eslint-config`
- `@react-native-community/eslint-plugin` to `@react-native/eslint-plugin`
- `@react-native/polyfills` to `@react-native/js-polyfills`
- `@react-native/normalize-color` to `@react-native/normalize-colors`
- `@react-native/assets` to `@react-native/assets-registry`
- `react-native-codegen` to `@react-native/codegen`
- `react-native-gradle-plugin` to `@react-native/gradle-plugin`

This change will not affect you if you have no direct dependency on a renamed package. Otherwise, when upgrading to React Native 0.72, update any renamed dependency to its ~0.72 version.

> 

Author: Is this update relevant to users who are not using the New Architecture? If so, I'd want to re-title this

> 

Reviewer 5: As explained above, this affects mainly the new architecture (or people that are using Fabric in the old one, which is also a possibility - we do it with RNTester). But it is quite important for library maintainers who have already migrated their libraries and it is one of the few breaking changes (maybe even the only one) for the New Architecture in 0.72.

> 

Author: I think if it's for libraries that have already migrated to the New Architecture -- this update should be in the New Architecture post

#### No more redboxes with invalid style properties

Prior to this release, providing an invalid style property in StyleSheet would result in a redbox. This is a high signal error that disrupts the developer workflow for a relatively low-risk error.

In 0.72, we’ve relaxed this expectation to fail silently, like providing an invalid CSS property in the browser.

#### Better error readability for Hermes

Hermes has added better error message when invoking an undefined callable.

```
    var x = undefined; x();
    // Before: undefined is not a function
    // After: x is not a function (it is undefined)
```

In addition, LogBox stack traces now filter out internal Hermes bytecode frames that are not relevant to app users.

#### Improved error output of the React Native CLI

0.72 ships with React Native CLI v11.2.2 which includes improvements to reduce duplication, clarify wording, reduce verbose stack traces, and add deep links to relevant docs in the following commands `init` , `run-android` and `run-ios`.

You can find other improvements in the [React Native CLI changelogs](https://github.com/react-native-community/cli/releases/tag/v11.2.2).

> #### Faster compilation and JSON parsing in Hermes

Author: ```suggestion
#### Faster Compilation and JSON Parsing in Hermes
```

Symlink support continues to be one of the top-requested features in Metro and, in React Native 0.72, we are happy to announce pre-stable support for it.

Symlink support enables React Native to work transparently with monorepo setups and pnpm, removing the need for workarounds. See [Enabling pre-stable features](/blog/2023/05/30/0.72-metro-package-exports-symlinks#enabling-pre-stable-features) to use in your app.

#### Package Exports support (Beta)

[Package Exports](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#exports) is the modern alternative to the package.json "main" field and provides new capabilities for npm packages to define their public API and target React Native.

By enabling Package Exports support in your Metro config, your app will be compatible with the wider JavaScript ecosystem, including via the new "react-native" community condition. See [Enabling pre-stable features](/blog/2023/05/30/0.72-metro-package-exports-symlinks#enabling-pre-stable-features) to use in your app.

:::tip
See the [dedicated blog post](https://reactnative.dev/blog/2023/05/08/package-exports-support) to learn more about this feature and our plans for stable rollout.
:::

> #### Enabling pre-stable features

Author: We are committing to the terminology proposed here: https://github.com/react-native-community/discussions-and-proposals/discussions/652

We are determining these features are in beta. We've determined that "pre-stable" encapsulates all stages before stable, including beta. Since we're just introducing this nomenclature, these features may not completely comply with our process as they use `unstable_` in the API. This will be an exception. 

Where else are we using conflicting terminology?

> #### Enabling pre-stable features

Reviewer 2: I'm just trying to provide the perspective of an end user reading this blogpost and finding all these different terms. Maybe add a callout to mention what you are saying here, with the proposed nomenclature?

Also, since it's not in effect yet, should we even start treating it as official? isn't it jumping the gun a bit 🤔

> #### Enabling pre-stable features

Author: I think the broad strokes of beta, and pre-stable are terms we will likely commit to. I agree the usage of `unstable` isn't ideal as I don't think it matches the expectation of what beta means. I think this can be something we accept for now. I would want to avoid re-naming the prop and re-releasing Metro at this point

> #### Enabling pre-stable features

Author: I can also use beta whereever we say "pre-stable" since pre-stable is a generalization of beta

To enable these new Metro features in your project, update your app’s `metro.config.js` file and set either the `resolver.unstable_enableSymlinks` or `resolver.unstable_enablePackageExports` options.

```js
const config = {
  // ...
  resolver: {
    unstable_enableSymlinks: true,
    unstable_enablePackageExports: true,
  },
};
```

### Developer Experience Improvements

#### No more redboxes with invalid style properties

Prior to this release, providing an invalid style property in StyleSheet would result in a redbox. This is a high signal error that disrupts the developer workflow for a relatively low-risk error.

> In 0.72, we’ve relaxed this expectation to fail silently, like providing an invalid CSS property in the browser.

Reviewer 6: We also were able to turn a couple of these into type-checking errors so your editor/typechecker flags them for you (vs the runtime error).

Multiple optimizations ([de9c](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/commit/de9cff2aa41fc1f297b568848143347823d73659), [6e2d](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/commit/6e2dd652c8d90c5d59737a81f66a259efffdcd00)) to JSON parsing have also landed, benefiting apps using libraries like redux-persist that rely heavily on JSON manipulation.

#### More ECMAScript Support in Hermes

Support for the following specifications in Hermes have landed in React Native 0.72:

- `prototype.at` support for [Array](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/at), [TypedArray](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray/at) and [String](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/at). See [#823](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/issues/823) ([ebe2](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/commit/ebe2915ac386a6b73dec39c2af4ac7063e68cd99)).
- Implement [well-formed JSON.stringify](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-well-formed-stringify) ([d41d](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/commit/d41decf244aa814b1e58827a9de982f3b71667de)) to prevent ill-formed Unicode strings

> - Implement [AggregateError](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/AggregateError) ([9b25](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/commit/9b25a2530eb515f6c4fbd397ae290b6c97c049b2)) that represents several errors wrapped in a single error. Useful for multiple errors like from [`Promise.any()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/any) when all promises passed to it reject.

Reviewer 6: Something that has bitten us before, if we advertise new Hermes features, we should make sure it works out of the box in TS.

In this case we should be good, because https://github.com/tsconfig/bases/commit/fd08789f6d296475dd4c130ed2a0259b2a9a8f60 added `es2021.promise` to our tsconfig.

For users on JSC, these features are already available.

### Mitigation for TextInput ANRs on Android

Earlier this year our team was alerted of frequent and persistent ANRs (application not reponsive) around multi-line TextInputs from a high volume of community reports. Investigating, we isolated the issue to devices using the Samsung soft keyboard with Grammarly enabled ([issue/35936](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/issues/35936)).

Our best understanding is a correlation of using and re-formatting a large number of `AbsoluteSizeSpan`s. We were able to reproduce the issue outside of React Native, on a template Android application and found this issue also impacts the larger Android app ecosystem.

We have reached out to Samsung to share our findings and hope it will be addressed by Samsung in a future update.

> As a mitigation for the React Native community, we have landed a change to reduce our dependency on `AbsoluteSizeSpans` in cases where they can be omitted. This is not a complete solution but lowers number of cases this ANR may occur.

Author: Fair, if you think it won't be a benefit to discuss I can remove.

This mitigation is in 0.72 and has been back-ported to the following versions in the [support window](https://github.com/reactwg/react-native-releases#releases-support-policy), with the exception of 0.68.7:

- [0.71.7](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/releases/tag/v0.71.7)
- [0.70.9](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/releases/tag/v0.70.9)
- [0.69.10](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/releases/tag/v0.69.10)
- [0.68.7](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/releases/tag/v0.68.7)

We recommend users upgrade to the latest stable release when possible and stay on supported React Native versions to receive critical updates.

### Moving New Architecture Updates

At this stage, New Architecture updates are most relevant to early adopters of the New Architecture.

To keep updates clear and focussed on the target audience, we are moving New Architecture updates in 0.72, and future releases, to the dedicated [working group](https://github.com/reactwg/react-native-new-architecture/discussions). This change will also allow us to share more frequent updates, such as work that ships in our nightlies.

<!-- TODO link -->

> You can read the [0.72 updates for the New Architecture here](https://github.com).

Reviewer 2: adding a comment just so that we remember to modify this link

Subscribe to the working group GitHub Notifications to stay informed on our progress on the New Architecture.

## Breaking Changes

### Deprecated Component Removals

The following packages have been removed from React Native in 0.72. Please migrate to the recommended community package:

> - [Slider](https://reactnative.dev/docs/next/slider) is superseded by [@react-native-community/slider](https://github.com/callstack/react-native-slider/tree/main/package)
> - [DatePickerIOS](https://reactnative.dev/docs/next/datepickerios) is superseded by [@react-native-community/datetimepicker](https://github.com/react-native-datetimepicker/datetimepicker)
> - [ProgressViewIOS](https://reactnative.dev/docs/next/progressviewios) is superseded by [@react-native-community/progress-view](https://github.com/react-native-progress-view/progress-view)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- [Slider](/docs/next/slider) is superseded by [@react-native-community/slider](https://github.com/callstack/react-native-slider/tree/main/package)
- [DatePickerIOS](/docs/next/datepickerios) is superseded by [@react-native-community/datetimepicker](https://github.com/react-native-datetimepicker/datetimepicker)
- [ProgressViewIOS](/docs/next/progressviewios) is superseded by [@react-native-community/progress-view](https://github.com/react-native-progress-view/progress-view)
```

Switch to internal links.

- `@react-native-community/eslint-plugin` to `@react-native/eslint-plugin`
- `@react-native/polyfills` to `@react-native/js-polyfills`
- `@react-native/normalize-color` to `@react-native/normalize-colors`
- `@react-native/assets` to `@react-native/assets-registry`
- `react-native-codegen` to `@react-native/codegen`
- `react-native-gradle-plugin` to `@react-native/gradle-plugin`

This change will not affect you if you have no direct dependency on a renamed package. Otherwise, when upgrading to React Native 0.72, update any renamed dependency to its ~0.72 version.

You can read background on these changes [here](https://github.com/react-native-community/discussions-and-proposals/pull/480).

## Acknowledgements

A lot of this release came from the direct feedback from the community. From reports on [noisy redboxes](https://twitter.com/baconbrix/status/1623039650775371792), [bugs with Package Exports](https://github.com/facebook/metro/issues/965), [benchmarks for the New Architecture](https://github.com/reactwg/react-native-new-architecture/discussions/85) — all of it is valuable to hear and we appreciate the time it takes to share feedback.

> In addition, thank you to the contributors to this release! 66 contributors submitted over [1100 commits](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/compare/v0.71.8...v0.72.0)! Thank you all for your hard work!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition, we wanted to call out the contributors to this release: 66 developers submitted over [1100 commits](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/compare/v0.71.8...v0.72.0) - thank you all for your hard work!
```

Author: Updating because I don't want to label each contributor as a developer

## Upgrade to 0.72.0 now!

> Check out the list of needed changes in the [upgrade-helper](https://react-native-community.github.io/upgrade-helper/), or read the [upgrade documentation](https://reactnative.dev/docs/upgrading) for how to update your existing project, or create a new project with `npx react-native@latest init MyProject`.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Check out the list of needed changes in the [upgrade-helper](https://react-native-community.github.io/upgrade-helper/), or read the [upgrade documentation](/docs/upgrading) for how to update your existing project, or create a new project with `npx react-native@latest init MyProject`.
```

Internal link.

> React Native version 0.72 will be supported in Expo SDK version 49.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
If your project is based on Expo there is a good news too, React Native version 0.72 will be supported in upcoming Expo SDK 49 release.
```

Expo SDK phrasing nit, not sure tho if this style fits writing style of the whole article. Feel free to change or even ignore this suggestion if this feels off.

:::info
0.72 is now the latest stable version of React Native and 0.69.x version moves now to unsupported. For more information see [React Native’s support policy](https://github.com/reactwg/react-native-releases#releases-support-policy).
:::

> Thank you!

Reviewer 3: That must be for; readers :)
